I am too good and how are you? !!

My name is Arya and I am NOT going home until I answer all your queries !!

There is no limit to the number of clubs that you can join. Join any club that interests you for starters and later you may decide which club you want to continue with :) !!

Address of IIT Mandi is Parashar Road, Tehsil Sadar, Near Kataula, Kamand, Himachal Pradesh 175005. !!

When the institute reopens, the freshers will be accommodated at North Campus, Kamand. !!

IIT Campus is spread over North and South campuses in Kamand. North and south campuses are contiguous and interconnected with roads and walkways.
Phase 1 construction of the south campus is complete and the north campus is expected to complete in 2021. Faculty and students are living on both south and north campuses. Most of the academic activities of B.Tech students are held in the north campus. !!

Weather becomes chilly after mid-October, and in winter, there is the occasional snowfall, especially in the mountains above Kamand. But in general, we have long winter vacations from early December till mid-February to keep the cold at bay.
The weather is usually pleasant, especially in the evenings and is ideal for nature enthusiasts who want to explore the serene surroundings of IIT Mandi. !!

Branch change depends solely on your CGPA (Cumulative Grade Point Average) for the first two semesters. For more details kindly have a look at the link below:
http://iitmandi.ac.in/academics/branch_change.php !!

Income certificates are submitted at the time of admission as mentioned on the website and applications are collected during the semester. The decision is made by the Senate to award the scholarships, and later in the second semester, students are given the scholarship reimbursing their earlier tuition fees and that of the second
semester.
Other details can be found here: http://iitmandi.ac.in/academics/scholarship.php !!

There will be common courses for all of you in the first year. These first year courses include Electrical systems around us, Computing and Data Science, Mathematics, Reverse Engineering, Graphics for Design, English, German, Applied electronics, Engineering Thermodynamics, etc .
List of courses for the first semester would be available on the course page linked
below.
More about curriculum and courses:
http://www.iitmandi.ac.in/academics/courses.php
http://iitmandi.ac.in/academics/perspective_btech_curriculum.php !!

There is no restriction in bringing a laptop to the Institute when you join. It would be better if you had a laptop for the course on computation with Python-language programming, but then the PC lab is also there. !!

The Internet is pretty good in the Institute and is uncapped, i.e., unlimited hi-speed internet at all times. !!

Institute arranges for the sale of hostel necessities like mattresses, pillows, pillow covers, bed sheets, locks, buckets, mugs etc. on Orientation day. Local vendors are arranged for the sale of these items inside the Institute. !!

Hostels have rooms of different sizes, single, double and triple occupancy. First year students usually get a shared room. !!

In general, you can get the e-books for the materials that the teacher specifies. Also, you can get them from the library, though the library may have only limited copies. Local bookshops in Mandi or online stores are also of help, so are the seniors.
Moodle web pages on our intranet site have all the course materials posted by faculty and students. !!

A generous holiday schedule is followed in here. We have a five-day working week, and at times there are other holidays in between too. Semester breaks are from December to Mid February for winters and from mid June to early August in summers.
As we are following the online semester now, classes are held from Monday to Saturday, the semester breaks are also different compared to the usual schedule.
Please check the academic calendar for first year students for further details.
http://iitmandi.ac.in/academics/calendar.php !!

The student Gymkhana organizes all extracurricular activities. Have a look at the link below for more details about clubs and Gymkhana
https://gymkhana.iitmandi.co.in/ !!


Sports activities are coordinated by the Principal Sports Officer and the Faculty Sports Advisor. A team of highly experienced coaches and ground staff work under their direction to help you take part in the games of your choice.
Participate in various tournaments like Inter-IIT, Aagaaz, Rann-Neeti and other in-house tournaments. At Kamand, we have fields for Cricket, Football and Hockey, Basketball, Tennis, Squash, Badminton, TT and Volleyball courts. TT and Foosball tables are also available in most hostels. There is also Swimming pool, gym and yoga room etc. !!

Sports played at IIT Mandi include Football, Basketball, Cricket, Volleyball, Badminton, Hockey, Lawn Tennis, Squash, Table Tennis, Swimming and Athletics. !!

Mandi is easily accessible from the two places by bus or by cab. From Delhi ISBT(Kashmiri gate) there is a regular bus service: Volvo, Tata AC and ordinary buses go directly to Mandi. Same is the case for Chandigarh; besides, all buses from Delhi pass through Chandigarh. You can also take the train to Chandigarh, and from there from the ISBT at Sector 43 to Mandi by bus. At Mandi ISBT, you are right in front of our Transit Campus. From there take the Institute shuttle service to Kamand campus. !!

First semester will start in the online mode in November. Joining date would be updated soon via email. !!

Mandi has a fairly good market, which can provide you with almost anything. Hotels like Raj Mahal, Regent Palms, Treat are good for dinners. Dominos, Raman Bakers, Sai Sweets have their share of fast food fanatics. Indira Market, built around a sunken lake, - the Mandi version of a super mall - is a delightful place for making little discoveries. !!

There is zero Tolerance for ragging. We have the following committees to take care of any issues, Student Welfare and Disciplinary Committee (SWDC), Anti-Ragging Committee (ARC). !!

It is a small place so chances of getting lost is minimal. Keep the security numbers with you. !!

The mess food is nutritional and offers a huge variety from mattar paneer to chole bhature to non veg food and not to mention the special dinner at every month's end. !!

IIT Mandi campus and nearby places are very safe to roam alone. The villagers around the campus are very friendly and ready to help anytime. There are many security guard posts across the campus. !!

There are many canteens on campus, some of which remain open till midnight or beyond. Besides these, there are many restaurants close to both south and north campuses. !!

24 hrs open, need to give attendance between 10pm to midnight, permission to be sought if going away. No alcohol or smoking. !!

The campus is safe. No incident involving wild animals has been reported so far. !!

There are fairly good number of unique activities to do here due to the pristine location of college, students can enjoy hiking and trekking, mountain biking etc. We have active student clubs who coordinate these activities. !!

80-90% students who opt for placement get placed. Salary package comparable to other IITs. Students go for higher studies, entrepreneurship etc Last year Placement in CSE was 98.27 %, EE was 84.5%, ME was 66.6% , CE
33.3%.
Median Salary: 14LPA
Some of the companies and organizations who came for recruitment in previous years include: ISRO, Amazon, Microsoft, Texas Instruments, Goldman Sachs, Codenation, irage capital solutions Ltd., Mastercard, Webstaff, Publicis.Sapient, Tonichi insatsu, Optum, Robert bosch,Yodlee, Domino Data lab, SMS datatech, Samsung Delhi, TCS Research, Internet Academy, Vehant, L&TMumbai, L&T ECC, Truring, Tork Motor Cycles, Novopay, Shopx, MAQ, Assanjob, Eclerx, Tejas Networks, Siemens, Cortex, Optiver, Flow traders, DEShaw, ServiceNow, Razorpay, Oyo Rooms, 1mg, BOSCH, Works Application, Toppr, Mathworks, Marvell Semiconductors, HPCL and OLX People. !!

IIT Mandi has excellent teaching and research labs. Since the labs are newly developed, they have new and updated equipments. !!

In any IIT, you will find a few teachers who inspire you because you have an interest in the subject. We have young faculty who are active in cutting-edge research and worked in excellent research labs and industry in India and abroad. Young faculty are easy to approach informally outside the classroom, they participate in sports etc. IIT Mandi has 10% senior faculty who mentor the young faculty so that their teaching is good and is improving. Many of the young faculty now have 4-7 years of teaching experience. !!

MoU with TU9 institutes Germany, WPI Universities in USA, Universities in Sweden, Denmark, Switzerland, Canada as well as other IITs. Students go for exchange programs for 1 or 2 semesters.
More info:
https://students.iitmandi.ac.in/international.php !!


Details of new B.Tech. programmes started in 2019 are the following:
http://iitmandi.ac.in/academics/courses.php !!